#Copenhagen Appartment Prices

This is the final project in my Udacity Nanodegree D3 course. The visualization uses a cocktail glass storytelling, and utilizes multiple shapes and colors to display the data in various ways.

The visualization tells the story of increasing appartment prices in copenhagen, where it is also possible to see a stagnation in the price development, most likely caused by the housing collapse in 2006. One of the biggest driving factors behind the exponential increase in appartment prices is that you aren't taxed on the profit of a sale. Combine this with regulations in 1989, that increased what is known as "realkredit lån" - realkredit lån is essentially a very low interest loan on appartments - from 60% to 80% of the appartments sales price, as well as the city of copenhagen selling of many of their rental appartments, and what you have is a generation of people buying appartments for a fraction of their current day market value. These people, because of the zero taxation on profit, have since the early 2000's been able to either buy expensive appartments for their children, through what is called "forældrekøb", which is essentially parent purchase, by taking a loan in their own appartment, or they can invest in some of the expensive new appartments popping up everywhere in copenhagen, by simply selling their appartment, often with a 600+% ROI. This crazy price growth sadly has the effect that regular people are having a harder and harder time finding a place to live in the city, and even students sometimes have to resort to paying up to 7000 dkk a month for a "student" appartment.
If the prices continue to increase for the next 5-10 years, it will be unreasonably difficult for single people, and families, not to mention single parents, to invest in an appartment in Copenhagen, unless they've worked 10-15 years, or they have some inheritance. Given that I see the price development as being way to steep, I do believe that we will see a big correction in the average sales price within the next 5 years.

The data was scraped from boliga.dk, but the full dataaset was not included for possible legal reasons. The postnumre_and_salg.geojson, includes some statistics per year per postal district, and the visualization only uses this file.
